Add section on code review (#10553)
Qiskit/qiskit-terra: CONTRIBUTING.md

   deprecation, removal etc) that you have added a reno release note for that
   change and that the PR is tagged for the changelog.

### Code review

All code merged to Qiskit, even from maintainers, goes through a code-review
process after a pull request is made.  We only have a small number of

> maintainers who can authorise a merge, and it's useful for everyone if the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maintainers who can authorize a merge, and it's useful for everyone if the
```

Author: is this really the only British-ism?

community can take part in helping make sure pull requests are technically

> correct, well tested, and easy to review.

Reviewer: One thing I did in #6641 is to explicitly call out the value of people doing code review and also helping to reduce the maintainer burden. I think it would be good to reinforce this a bit more here. At least for me a big motivation in the original PR was to try and more strongly reinforce the value of having a culture of mutual review regardless of whether you empowered to merge code.

Author: How's ef1c3441a?

Reviewer: Thanks, yeah that looks better to me.

* Is the code reasonably easy for you to understand?  This particular point is
  tricky; the more you review code, the easier it will be for you to understand
  more code, so don't worry about this as much if you're getting started.

#### Writing review comments

* Make concrete suggestions when you think something should be changed, but
  remember that the author might have already thought about it and have a
  reason.  Try "what do you think about us raising a `TypeError` here instead of
  returning `None`?", rather than "you should raise an exception here".
* Try to make each round of review thorough.  Don't add one or two comments on
  one file, then come back a day later and add a couple of other unrelated
  comments on a different file, and so on.  Try to review the whole PR
  thoroughly in one go; it's easier to catch bugs like this, and less
  frustrating to be on the other side of. If that's too much for you, that might
  mean that the PR should be split into smaller chunks.
* Try to keep the number of comments reasonable.  This depends on the size of
  the PR, but remember that there's somebody who'll read all your comments, and

>   it feels rubbish if you get a PR back and it's got 30 comments on from a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  it can be demoralizing if you get a PR back and it's got 30 comments on from a
```

   deprecation, removal etc) that you have added a reno release note for that
   change and that the PR is tagged for the changelog.

### Code review

All code merged to Qiskit, even from maintainers, goes through a code-review
process after a pull request is made.  There are a small number of

> maintainers who can authorize a final merge, but code review is everyone

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
maintainers who can authorize a final merge, but code review involves everyone
```

Author: Personally I think "is" is fine here, but I don't mind.  Changed in 724d18de7.

working together to make Qiskit better.  You can review code even if you
are not a maintainer, which helps make sure pull requests are technically
correct, well tested, and easier in final review.

The code-review process is a normal part of software development, and nothing to
be scared of; for very easy changes it can be as simple as a maintainer saying

> "looks good to me!" and merging the PR.  For more complex changes, it's often a

Author: As far as I can recall, I've never used that acronym (most just out of stubbornness at this point lol).

> "looks good to me!" and merging the PR.  For more complex changes, it's often a

Reviewer 3: Heh, well. Matt and I use it at least :3

> "looks good to me!" and merging the PR.  For more complex changes, it's often a

Reviewer 4: I do use it too.. so. Commiting :)

back-and-forth where the reviewer may ask a couple of questions about why things
were done a particular way, and make suggestions for improvement.  You don't
need to do everything suggested if you've got good reasons to disagree, but
communicate that clearly and politely.

If you're struggling with code review or a PR on Qiskit, you can ask for help in
the `#qiskit-pr-help` channel on [the public Qiskit Slack](https://qisk.it/join-slack).

> Remember that the PR author is a human, not just a screen name!  It's ok to ask

Author: I said "username", but otherwise done in 2971995d8.

questions about the code, but don't be mean or rude about it even if you don't
like it.

#### What to focus on in review

* Is everything in [the PR checklist](#pull-request-checklist) done?
* Are any new public APIs easy to use, well documented, and in keeping with

>   other parts of the Qiskit API?

Author: Done in 2971995d8.

* Do any changes to the code have knock-on effects for other parts of Qiskit

>   that may be using them, or do the changes imply changes to the assumptions in

Author: Done in 2971995d8.

  our data structures?

> * Are there any edge cases you can think of that the code might not handle well?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Are there any edge cases you can think of that the code might not handle well? And are extra tests needed to cover these edge cases?
```

Author: Done similar in 724d18de7.

* Is the code reasonably easy for you to understand?  This particular point is
  tricky; the more you review code, the easier it will be for you to understand
  more code, so don't worry about this as much if you're getting started.

#### Writing review comments

* Make concrete suggestions when you think something should be changed, but
  remember that the author might have already thought about it and have a
  reason.  Try "what do you think about us raising a `TypeError` here instead of
  returning `None`?", rather than "you should raise an exception here".
* Try to make each round of review thorough.  Don't add one or two comments on
  one file, then come back a day later and add a couple of other unrelated
  comments on a different file, and so on.  Try to review the whole PR
  thoroughly in one go; it's easier to catch bugs like this, and less

>   frustrating to be on the other side of. If that's too much for you, that might
>   mean that the PR should be split into smaller chunks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  frustrating to be on the other side of. If that's too much for you, that might
  mean that the PR should be split into smaller chunks.
```

This would be on the PR author, right? I think we ought to drop that last sentence, or suggest that they ask the PR author to make the PR more focused.

Reviewer 3: That'd be reasonable for them to infer. IMO though, it's a bit hand-wavy as it is, since we're putting stock on the competence of the reader to assess whether or not their review fatigue comes from a poorly factored PR.

Author: Fair enough - I tweaked the wording in d62c1eea2, which I think should help?

* Try to keep the number of comments reasonable.  This depends on the size of
  the PR, but remember that there's somebody who'll read all your comments, and
  it can be demoralizing if you get a PR back and it's got 30 comments on from a
  50-line change.  If you feel like you're putting too many comments on,
  consider if you could group several of them into one theme, and ask them as a
  more detailed question with a focus on only one part of the code.  Try not to
  comment the same thing in many places.

> * Try to avoid saying "you do" in review comments, and instead try to

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused about this you do / we do comment, I'm not sure what exactly you're trying to say 😅 Maybe add an example?

  say things like "we do" even when talking about new code. It's not a big
  change, yet it helps to make us think about Qiskit's code as something that we
  all own and care about, and that we're all working together to make it better.

> #### Responding to review comments

Reviewer 2: do you think it's worth adding a point to this section about respecting the expertise of core maintainers? Something about how it's ok to push back or question a review but at the end of the day if a maintainer is asking for a change you should respect and action their request if you want them to merge your work.

Author: I considered this when writing, and wasn't super sure whether I should say something like it or not.  I don't want to give the impression that maintainers are infallible, and we really would want maintainers to be able to back up change requests with convincing arguments when required (otherwise are we sure they're not pure opinion, which we want to avoid commenting on?), but I also do think that at some point yeah, the maintainer is the final say even if you don't fully buy their argument.

I can expand saying "the maintainer has the final say" (in nicer language), if that's something we all agree we should have?

  about improving something.  Assume that the reviewer was acting in good faith,
  trying to be polite, and knows what they're talking about; it's unlikely that
  they meant to make you feel bad or insult you.  If you _do_ feel like somebody
  is not following [the code of conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), please report it
  using the violation form there.

#### Things that shouldn't be said

* Anything about the formatting of the code.  We have automated code formatters
  that enforce a uniform style, and CI requires them to have been run.
* Minor stylistic changes in _how_ people code, except where they might be
  seriously affecting performance or legibility.  There's lots of ways to
  program, especially in Python, and lots of ways that achieve the same thing.
  For example, if somebody has written
  ```python
  if my_condition:
      my_first_variable = 123
      my_second_variable = 456
  else:
      my_first_variable = 456
      my_second_variable = 123
  ```
  there's no need to suggest changes like
  ```python
  my_first_variable = 123 if my_condition else 456
  my_second_variable = 456 if my_condition else 123
  ```

>   Both are perfectly legible, and focussing on small details like this is

Author: Ah, another British-ism.  Americanised in 724d18de7.

   deprecation, removal etc) that you have added a reno release note for that
   change and that the PR is tagged for the changelog.

### Code review

> All code merged to Qiskit, even from maintainers, goes through a code-review

Author: At least in British English, the hyphen is correct: "code-review" is a compound adjective modifying "process" here.

process after a pull request is made.  There are a small number of
maintainers who can authorize a final merge, but code review involves everyone
working together to make Qiskit better.  You can review code even if you
are not a maintainer, which helps make sure pull requests are technically
correct, well tested, and easier to tackle in their final maintainer review.

> The code-review process is a normal part of software development, and nothing to

Author: Same here - the hyphen is correct in British English, and I think American too.

be scared of; for very easy changes it can be as simple as a maintainer saying
"looks good to me!" (or in short-form, "LGTM!") and merging the PR.  For more complex changes, it's often a
back-and-forth where the reviewer may ask a couple of questions about why things
were done a particular way, and make suggestions for improvement.  You don't
need to do everything suggested if you've got good reasons to disagree, but
communicate that clearly and politely.

If you're struggling with code review or a PR on Qiskit, you can ask for help in

> the `#qiskit-pr-help` channel on [the public Qiskit Slack](https://qisk.it/join-slack).

Author: The word "channel" is a little before the link - the whole sentence reads as "the ... channel on the public Qiskit Slack", so it'd be wrong to add an extra "channel".
